# Source Implementation of a Weak/Broken Cryptographic Hash Function

## Summary

* An implementation of a weak/broken hash function such as MD-5 or SHA-1 was found in source code.
* Remove the implementation of the weak/broken hash function.
* Replace the use of insecure hashing algorithms with more secure alternatives such as an algorithm from the SHA-2 family (SHA256, SHA384, and SHA512).

## Details

### Custom Cryptographic Implementation

Correct and secure implementation of cryptographic algorithms is very complex and difficult.
Developers should always use well-vetted libraries for cryptographic operations rather than producing their own implementations of those functions.

### Weak Hash Algorithms

Hash collisions are computationally feasible for older, weak hash algorithms such as MD2, MD4, MD5, and SHA-1.
A hash collision allows an attacker to substitute an alternative input that results in the same hash value.
Collision attacks allow attackers to undermine the security of systems using an insecure hash algorithm (e.g., by forging digital signatures, concealing data tampering, or cracking passwords).

## Severity Considerations

Developers should almost never implement their own versions of cryptographic operations. Furthermore, weak hash algorithms should not be used, especially for security purposes.

## Solution

### .NET

Replace usages of insecure hash algorithms with `System.Security.Cryptography.SHA512Cng`, `System.Security.Cryptography.SHA384Cng`, or `System.Security.Cryptography.SHA256Cng`.
