# SSL/TLS Cryptographic Agility Guidance

## Summary

* .NET Framework applications should target .NET Framework 4.8 or later for TLS 1.3 support.
* Do not specify the TLS version explicitly. Configure your code to let the OS decide on the TLS version.
* Do not disable the use of strong cryptography for TLS via configuration.

## Details

### Defer Choice of TLS Version to OS

The Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol is a cryptographic standard designed to help protect the privacy of information communicated over the Internet. Cryptographic algorithms once considered secure may become insecure due to advances in computing power or discovery of subtle flaws in the algorithms.

Software with hardcoded cryptographic algorithms may require code changes in the future if those algorithms become insecure. A better alternative is to defer control of the cryptographic algorithm to the operating system.

### Implementation

#### .NET

* When `Switch.System.ServiceModel.DontEnableSystemDefaultTlsVersions` is `false`, the application will use TLS protocol chosen by the operating system. Do not set `DontEnableSystemDefaultTlsVersions` to `false`.
* When `Switch.System.Net.DontEnableSchUseStrongCrypto` is `false`, the application will use more secure network protocols. Do not set `DontEnableSchUseStrongCrypto` to `true`.
* When application code sets a value for `System.Net.ServicePointManager.SecurityProtocol`, the application will override the TLS protocol chosen by the operating system. This makes the application less crypto-agile and may make the application less secure. Do not set a value for `System.Net.ServicePointManager.SecurityProtocol` in application code.

#### C++ (Schannel)

* Ensure that you do not set `grbitEnabledProtocols` to anything but `0`. Setting this field to zero instructs the operating system to use its configured TLS version.

## References

* [TLS Best Practices with .NET Framework](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/network-programming/tls)
* [Security Briefs - Cryptographic Agility](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/msdn-magazine/2009/august/cryptographic-agility)
* [Microsoft SDL Cryptographic Recommendations](http://download.microsoft.com/download/6/3/A/63AFA3DF-BB84-4B38-8704-B27605B99DA7/Microsoft%20SDL%20Cryptographic%20Recommendations.pdf)
* [SSL Labs: SSL and TLS Deployment Best Practices](https://github.com/ssllabs/research/wiki/SSL-and-TLS-Deployment-Best-Practices)
* [OWASP: Transport Layer Protection Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [Microsoft Learn: SCHANNEL_CRED structure](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/schannel/ns-schannel-schannel_cred)
