# Do Not Enable XML External Entity Resolution

## Summary

* Code that enabled external entity resolution was found.
* Do not enable external entity resolution.

## Details

The XML 1.0 standard defines a number of different entity types, including the **external entity** type.
An XML external entity (XXE) specifies a URI that can be accessed by the XML processor by replacing the entity with specified remote content.
An attacker that is able to control the content of an XML document could use XXE to execute specific attacks.
XXE attacks may result in disclosure of local file contents, attacks against internal services (SSRF), denial-of-service,
or in the case of vulnerable XML parsers, execute arbitrary code.

Modern XML parsers disable the resolution of external entities by default but allow the developer to opt-in, or enable, external entity resolution.
XML parsers should not be configured to resolve external entities.

## Severity Considerations

XML XXE vulnerabilities require the application to (1) parse XML documents, (2) use an XML parser configured to resolve external entities, and
(3) for the XML document to contain untrusted data.
The risk of XXE is lower when only parsing trusted XML documents.
However, not opting-in to external entity resolution (or disabling external entity resolution in older XML parsers) should be fairly straightforward and is the safest choice.

## References

* [OWASP XML External Entity (XXE) Processing](https://owasp.org/www-community/vulnerabilities/XML_External_Entity_(XXE)_Processing)
* [OWASP XXE Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/XML_External_Entity_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html)
