# Certificate Validation Disabled

## Summary

Extend default certificate validation, but do not disable or override default rules.

## Details

Certificate validation ensures that the client application is communicating with the intended server, that is,
the client's connection to the server has not been compromised by a man-in-the-middle attack.

When a client application disables certificate validation, there is no guarantee that the client is communicating with the intended server and
any sensitive or confidential information submitted can be read by an attacker.

TLS certificates should be fully verified including domain name, validity dates, revocation status, and certification authority trust chain.

## Severity Considerations

Clients should not continue to communicate with servers when a certificate cannot be validated.
Without certificate validation, there is no guarantee that the server has not been impersonated by an attacker who will then have access to any sensitive information sent to the server.

## Solution

### .NET

Never disable certificate validation.

* Remove `ServerCertificateValidationCallback = return true`
* Do NOT set `X509CertificateValidationMode = X509CertificateValidationMode.None`
* Do NOT set `SkipTlsVerify=true`

### Python

Never use `verify=False` when making a request. See [CodeQL Guidance on Certificate Validation](https://codeql.github.com/codeql-query-help/python/py-request-without-cert-validation/) for more information.

### JavaScript

Never disable certificate validation for TLS connections by setting `rejectUnauthorized: false`. See [CodeQL Guidance on Certificate Validation](https://codeql.github.com/codeql-query-help/javascript/js-disabling-certificate-validation/) for more information.
