# Don't Pass User Input to File Inclusion or Execution Functions

## Summary

* Code was found that passes user input to a file inclusion or execution function.
* Attackers may be able to use dynamic inclusion/exclusion functions to execute arbitrary code or obtain sensitive information.
* Remove user input from calls to file inclusion or execution functions.

## Details

PHP offers several functions that can be used to incorporate the code of one file in another such as:

* `include`
* `include_once`
* `require`
* `require_once`

A file inclusion vulnerability exists when user input is passed to these file inclusion functions.
An attacker may be able to use a file inclusion vulnerability to have the server execute code from a remote server (AKA remote file inclusion)
or learn the contents of other files on server, potentially disclosing sensitive information.

PHP also includes functions such as `passthru` and `exec` that can be used to execute operating system commands.
A dynamic code evaluation vulnerability exists when user input is passed to these dynamic execution functions.
An attacker can use a dynamic code evaluation vulnerability to execute arbitrary code on the server.

## Severity Considerations

In the worst case, file inclusion and dynamic code evaluation vulnerabilities can provide an attacker the ability to execute arbitrary code leading to complete system compromise.

## References

* [OWASP Testing Guide: Remote File Inclusion](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/07-Input_Validation_Testing/11.2-Testing_for_Remote_File_Inclusion)
* [OWASP: Direct Dynamic Code Execution](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Direct_Dynamic_Code_Evaluation_Eval%20Injection)
